it's much smiled at seven o'clock five
live breakfast Nicky Campbell Rachel
burden we are here with you until ten
and one percent of the population
describe themselves as asexual what does
that mean you're with five live from the
BBC do you know a significant amount of
people in this country well one percent
is significant it's a lot of people are
asexual you'll be defined as no no
desire wish thoughts motivation drive
impetus relationships there are romantic
asexuals and non romantic asexuals you
like a cut a kiss in the cuddle but you
know beyond that just does but butter
your parsnips best is that we're going
to be speaking to mark a Clement from
Abel which is the asexuality visibility
and education network they used to say
to perform of Prime Minister Edward
Heath was probably probably just asexual
so I mean it's sexist all around us we
are bombarded with it only and these
people that must leave have an
interesting perspective there's no
lifestyle choice it's the way they are
against man united five life sport
good morning five live breakfast 748
right it's an estimated around 1% of
people in the UK are asexual which is
the population of a fair sized City
experts say asexuality is an orientation
unlike celibacy which is a choice isn't
it well mark McClement is a member of
Aven the asexuality visibility and
education network good morning mark good
morning good to have you on the program
what describe what asexuality is it's
very simply when someone has no sexual
attraction for for anyone else its if
you look at sexualities in terms of what
gender someone has attracted to sexually
attracted to their most most aggressive
heterosexuals where they fall in the
opposite gender to be sexually
attractive and then you have homosexual
people who find arrangin that to be
basically attractive and then you have
bisexual people who do like both then
it's logically follows that there must
be people who don't find either gender
to be sexually attractive and this is in
fact the case a biochemical reason for
this because we're all are we not wired
to you know to reproduce or to seek to
reproduce or to you know I'm talking
about you know evolutionary reasons is
there anything different or is it
psychological it were no it is actually
both there are people that can be made
asexual or rendered asexual by
psychological factors or physiological
reasons medications that affect libido
traumas abuse that kind of thing or just
simply old age but there are awesome
asexual people who are born that way
they're just part of the natural
variation in human sexuality in the same
way that home state
people yeah I've born that way so there
are two there are two that so there are
but unless the boys think about little
else than yeah you know sex versus
fifteen sixteen year old it's well it's
on you it's on your mind a lot what was
on your mind not that not that well I
was sort of thinking I don't really get
all that that sort of thing all this
this fascination of the opposite sex and
other people in that that kind of sexual
way and yeah for me I was more concerned
with all the other things that you know
doing well at school and sort of my
identity issues and all this kind of
thing that it just one more thing adding
on top of general sort of teenage angst
and confusion and finding your way that
well so but I was not obsessed by that
obviously I just didn't get that so it
was just I thought well I just realized
that that was the point I realized I was
different but didn't know how or why or
what was the cause behind it have you
been in a relationship I've been in a
few very short serve relationships but
things people realize that there's no
sex on the offering they tend to lose
interest quite fast and do you miss the
intimacy that might bring them touching
and cuddling and what about that side of
things I do enjoy that yeah I mean some
so many sexual people they don't like
being touched at all but in my case the
you know the you know the sort of
tactility sort of hugging and all that
sort of thing I do enjoy that thing
because there's a difference isn't that
I was reading between a romantic and an
aromantic asexual the romantic asexual
enjoys the intimacy you know to the
extent that we've been talking about but
the a romantic would be somebody who
just doesn't go for that at all
yes there are there are quite this quite
a big variation within the asexual
community so some people like that you
know essentially they would have a
relationship very much like a sexual
relationship just for the interfering
with each other's private bits and
pieces
so you know that they may do all the
sort of romantic things and then the
sort hugging whereas a romance you'd be
more like a close friendship we don't
have that sort of more physical intimacy
kind of thing and the ultimate pleasure
in ecstasy is something you have not and
have no desire to experience well it is
something it would be nice to experience
that it's you know when you know someone
that I found to be really attractive
especially attractive and emotionally
alluring to actually feel what it'd be
like to be sexually attracted to them as
well so it would be nice to experience
that but on the other side there there
is a great big relationship sized hole
in my life I'm not I don't sort of
wander around feeling unfulfilled or
uncomplete just because I'm not in a
relationship like lots of other people
are fascinating and you know 1% of
people there's a lot of people in this
country mark thanks for talking to us
this morning you're welcome thank you
for talking to me and and and covering
the subjects for I mean they'll be
probably quite a few asexual people that
might actually hear this and not realize
that they're they're asexual and
thinking this is me fantastic you know I
can now contact get in contact with
other people like me
experienced the summation of physical
pleasure in words carefully because it's
a breakfast program and I can become
aroused but the means by which I do it
doesn't translate into right okay being
sexual with another person so I know I I
can't know what it feels like but not in
the context of physical intimacy with
another person and associated with love
and emotions that kind of thing I
understand
thank you we had to be able to tread
carefully it's a really really
interesting and the asexuality
visibility and education network is your
organization mark thanks again it's 7:50